# PyBer Analysis
## Purpose and Background
PyBer is a ride-sharing app company valued at $2.3 billion dollars and we have been creating a multitude of visualizations to display data that the company has generated. We have created bubble charts, box-and-whisker plots, and pie charts to visualize various aspects of the data for 2019. For this project, we were asked to create a summary DataFrame of the ride sharing data by city type and create a multi-line graph displaying the total weekly fares for each city type from January to the end of April. These visualizations will then be used to inform decision-makers at PyBer so they can continue to make the best decisions for the company moving forward. 
## Results
In the [PyBer Summary DataFrame](https://github.com/MDaily7/PyBer_Analysis/blob/main/Analysis/Pyber_Summary_DataFrame.png), we can see the Total Rides, Total Drivers, Total Fares, Average Fare per Ride, and the Average Fare per Driver for each city type Rural, Suburban, and Urban. Rural cities had a total of 125 rides which is 5 times less than the 625 rides that suburban cities had, and 13 times less than the 1,625 rides that urban cities had. Rural cities also had far fewer drivers; 78 in total compared to the 490 and 2,405 of suburban and urban cities respectively. The trend continues for total fares; $4,327.93, $19,356.33, and $39,854.38 for rural, suburban, and urban cities respectively. The [PyBer Fare Summary Graph](https://github.com/MDaily7/PyBer_Analysis/blob/main/Analysis/PyBer_fare_summary.png) illustrates the difference in total fares over the span of four months. Rural cities did have the highest average fare per ride with $34.62 compared to $30.97 and $24.53 for suburban and urban cities sequentially. Finally, rural cities had the highest average fare per driver $55.49, suburban cities had the second highest at $39.50, and urban cities had the lowest with $16.57. 
## Summary
Utilizing the visualizations displayed in the results section, several recommendations can me made to the CEO of PyBer to address the disparities among the city types. These suggestions operate on the assumption that the fare per ride is based on the length of the ride. This seems to be a reasonable assumption to make as it is likely that most rural city trips would be longer and the average fare per ride for rural cities is the highest; compare this to the short trips that are likely in urban areas and the corresponding lowest average fare per ride. Under this assumption, my first suggestion would be to lower the number of drivers in urban areas. On average, urban drivers don't even make half of what suburban drivers do and make nearly three and a half times less what rural drivers make. Assuming that the fare per ride is based on the length of the ride, urban drivers make the shortest rides, so reducing the number of drivers theoretically won't reduce the total number of rides which is already about 1.5 times less than the number of drivers, but the fare per driver will increase. My second suggestion would be to increase the number of total drivers in rural areas. Once again, assuming that the average fare per ride is highest becuase the trips are longer, the amount of total rides may be smaller becuase drivers are occupied for longer amounts of time per ride. Increasing the number of drivers will ideally increase the total amount of rides thus increasing the total fares for rural areas. I would recommend adding drivers conservatively though so as to avoid the issue we are seeing with urban cities where there are too many drivers for the amount of rides. Finally, I would suggest taking the same approach for suburban areas and increasing the number of driver. However, it would be important to be even more conservative with the number of drivers added; we are hoping to increase the total amount of rides once again, but the gap between total drivers and total rides is smaller than in rural cities, so we are likely closer to the point of saturation. Any changes made should be monitored with the same analysis and visualizations so that we can easily determine if the changes had the desired effects. 
## Resources
* jupyter notebooks with Anaconda 4.11.0
* Python 3.7.11 with Pandas
* [Resources Folder](https://github.com/MDaily7/PyBer_Analysis/tree/main/Resources) with PyBer data csv's
* [Analysis Folder](https://github.com/MDaily7/PyBer_Analysis/tree/main/Analysis) with the images used in this analysis
